README.md, before:

This is the firmware for the TNC3 version 2.1.1 hardware.

# Building

Use Eclipse with CDT and the GNU MCU Eclipse plugins.

If you are porting this to another build platform, you will need to
build the firmware using the same compiler and linker options.  As
with most firmware projects, there is a linker script with defines
the memory layout for for the Flash and SRAM.

Below are example compilation and linking lines for reference:

    arm-none-eabi-gcc -mcpu=cortex-m4 -mthumb -mfloat-abi=softfp -mfpu=fpv4-sp-d16 -O2 -fmessage-length=0 -fsigned-char -ffunction-sections -fdata-sections -fno-inline-functions -fsingle-precision-constant -fstack-usage -fstrict-aliasing -ffast-math -Wall -Wextra -Wlogical-op -Wfloat-equal -g3 -D__FPU_PRESENT=1 -DUSE_HAL_DRIVER -DARM_MATH_CM4 -D__weak=__attribute__((weak)) -DSTM32L433xx -I/usr/arm-none-eabi/include -I../Inc -I../Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Inc -I../Drivers/CMSIS/Include -I../Drivers/CMSIS/Device/ST/STM32L4xx/Include -I../Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/include -I../Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/CMSIS_RTOS -I../Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/portable/GCC/ARM_CM4F -I../TNC -I../Middlewares/ST/STM32_USB_Device_Library/Class/CDC/Inc/ -I../Middlewares/ST/STM32_USB_Device_Library/Core/Inc -std=gnu11 -Wmissing-prototypes -Wstrict-prototypes -Wbad-function-cast -c -o Src/stm32l4xx_it.o ../Src/stm32l4xx_it.c 
    arm-none-eabi-g++ -mcpu=cortex-m4 -mthumb -mfloat-abi=softfp -mfpu=fpv4-sp-d16 -O2 -fmessage-length=0 -fsigned-char -ffunction-sections -fdata-sections -fno-inline-functions -fsingle-precision-constant -fstack-usage -fstrict-aliasing -ffast-math -Wall -Wextra -Wlogical-op -Wfloat-equal -g3 -T /home/rob/TNC3/firmware/STM32L433CCUx_FLASH.ld -Xlinker --gc-sections -Wl,-Map,firmware.map --specs=nano.specs -o firmware.elf Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_adc.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_adc_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_cortex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_crc.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_crc_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_dac.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_dac_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_dma.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_dma_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_flash.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_flash_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_flash_ramfunc.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_gpio.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_i2c.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_i2c_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_iwdg.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_opamp.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_opamp_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_pcd.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_pcd_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_pwr.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_pwr_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_rcc.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_rcc_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_rng.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_rtc.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_rtc_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_tim.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_tim_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_uart.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_uart_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_ll_usb.o Middlewares/ST/STM32_USB_Device_Library/Class/CDC/Src/usbd_cdc.o Middlewares/ST/STM32_USB_Device_Library/Core/Src/usbd_core.o Middlewares/ST/STM32_USB_Device_Library/Core/Src/usbd_ctlreq.o Middlewares/ST/STM32_USB_Device_Library/Core/Src/usbd_ioreq.o Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/CMSIS_RTOS/cmsis_os.o Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/croutine.o Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/event_groups.o Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/list.o Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/portable/GCC/ARM_CM4F/port.o Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/portable/MemMang/heap_3.o Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/queue.o Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/stream_buffer.o Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/tasks.o Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/timers.o Src/arm_fir_f32.o Src/arm_fir_fast_q15.o Src/arm_fir_init_f32.o Src/arm_fir_init_q15.o Src/arm_fir_interpolate_init_q15.o Src/arm_fir_interpolate_q15.o Src/arm_offset_q15.o Src/arm_q15_to_float.o Src/freertos.o Src/main.o Src/stm32l4xx_hal_msp.o Src/stm32l4xx_hal_timebase_TIM.o Src/stm32l4xx_it.o Src/system_stm32l4xx.o Src/usb_device.o Src/usbd_cdc_if.o Src/usbd_conf.o Src/usbd_desc.o TNC/AFSKModulator.o TNC/AFSKTestTone.o TNC/Afsk1200Demodulator.o TNC/AfskDemodulator.o TNC/AudioInput.o TNC/AudioLevel.o TNC/DCD.o TNC/Demodulator.o TNC/Digipeater.o TNC/FilterCoefficients.o TNC/Fsk9600Demodulator.o TNC/Fsk9600Modulator.o TNC/Goertzel.o TNC/Golay24.o TNC/HdlcDecoder.o TNC/HdlcFrame.o TNC/IOEventTask.o TNC/Kiss.o TNC/KissHardware.o TNC/KissTask.o TNC/LEDIndicator.o TNC/Log.o TNC/M17.o TNC/M17Demodulator.o TNC/M17Encoder.o TNC/M17Modulator.o TNC/ModulatorTask.o TNC/NullPort.o TNC/PortInterface.o TNC/PowerMode.o TNC/SerialPort.o TNC/UsbPort.o TNC/bm78.o TNC/bm78_eeprom.o newlib/_exit.o newlib/_sbrk.o newlib/_syscalls.o startup/startup_stm32l433xx.o 

# Debugging

Logging is enabled in debug builds and is output via ITM (SWO).  The
firmware is distributed with an openocd stlink config file that enables
ITM output to a named pipe -- `swv`.  You must create this pipe in the
top level directory.

To read from this pipe, open a terminal and run:

`while true; do tr -d '\01' < swv; done`

If you change the MCU's core clock, you need to adjust the timing in the
`stlink-tnc3.cfg` config file.

The TNC3 runs at 48MHz on startup.  It may switch to 80MHz for modulation types
such as 9600 or M17 which require more speed.  This makes using SWO challenging
as it cannot handle changes in core speeds.

# Installing firmware

Firmware can be installed via the on-board ST/LINK port or via USB DFU.

## USB DFU

 1. Download the STM32CubeProgrammer.
    https://s3.amazonaws.com/mobilinkd/en.stm32cubeprog-1.4.0.zip
    This programmer will work on Linux, OS X, and Windows.

 2. Download the ELF file from the release (or that you have built from source).

 3. Plug the TNC into a USB port and turn the TNC on.  You should see a USB
    serial port enumerated.

 4. Put the TNC into DFU mode by pressing the DFU/boot button on the side.  The
    TNC will only enter DFU mode when plugged into a USB port.

 ![TNC3 Diagram](https://s3.amazonaws.com/mobilinkd/TNC3/TNC3_Diagram.png)

***There is no visible indication on the TNC that it is in DFU mode***

 5. You should see the serial port device go away and a new DFU device appear.

 6. Run the STM32CubeProgrammer from the command-line. (Replace "firmware.elf"
    with the appropriate firmware filename. It must be in ELF format.)

    ./STM32_Programmer_CLI -c port=USB1 -d firmware.elf -v -g 0x8000000

 7. When that is complete, the DFU device will disappear and the serial port
    device will re-appear.

Commit message:

Update README.md for Blaze dependency.

README.md, after:

This is the firmware for the TNC3 version 2.1.1 hardware.

# Building

Use Eclipse with CDT and the GNU MCU Eclipse plugins.

If you are porting this to another build platform, you will need to
build the firmware using the same compiler and linker options.  As
with most firmware projects, there is a linker script with defines
the memory layout for for the Flash and SRAM.

## Blaze Dependency

There is a new dependency as of 2.4.3 with the addition of the Kalman
filter.  The firmware has a dependency on the Blaze C++ math library.

    mkdir blaze
    ln -s /usr/include/blaze blaze/

This also requires (for now) that the firmware be built with exceptions
enabled.

## Example GCC Command-line

Below are example compilation and linking lines for reference:

    arm-none-eabi-gcc -mcpu=cortex-m4 -mthumb -mfloat-abi=softfp -mfpu=fpv4-sp-d16 -O2 -fmessage-length=0 -fsigned-char -ffunction-sections -fdata-sections -fno-inline-functions -fsingle-precision-constant -fstack-usage -fstrict-aliasing -ffast-math -Wall -Wextra -Wlogical-op -Wfloat-equal -g3 -D__FPU_PRESENT=1 -DUSE_HAL_DRIVER -DARM_MATH_CM4 -D__weak=__attribute__((weak)) -DSTM32L433xx -I/usr/arm-none-eabi/include -I../Inc -I../Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Inc -I../Drivers/CMSIS/Include -I../Drivers/CMSIS/Device/ST/STM32L4xx/Include -I../Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/include -I../Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/CMSIS_RTOS -I../Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/portable/GCC/ARM_CM4F -I../TNC -I../Middlewares/ST/STM32_USB_Device_Library/Class/CDC/Inc/ -I../Middlewares/ST/STM32_USB_Device_Library/Core/Inc -std=gnu11 -Wmissing-prototypes -Wstrict-prototypes -Wbad-function-cast -c -o Src/stm32l4xx_it.o ../Src/stm32l4xx_it.c 
    arm-none-eabi-g++ -mcpu=cortex-m4 -mthumb -mfloat-abi=softfp -mfpu=fpv4-sp-d16 -O2 -fmessage-length=0 -fsigned-char -ffunction-sections -fdata-sections -fno-inline-functions -fsingle-precision-constant -fstack-usage -fstrict-aliasing -ffast-math -Wall -Wextra -Wlogical-op -Wfloat-equal -g3 -T /home/rob/TNC3/firmware/STM32L433CCUx_FLASH.ld -Xlinker --gc-sections -Wl,-Map,firmware.map --specs=nano.specs -o firmware.elf Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_adc.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_adc_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_cortex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_crc.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_crc_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_dac.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_dac_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_dma.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_dma_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_flash.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_flash_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_flash_ramfunc.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_gpio.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_i2c.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_i2c_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_iwdg.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_opamp.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_opamp_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_pcd.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_pcd_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_pwr.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_pwr_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_rcc.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_rcc_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_rng.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_rtc.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_rtc_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_tim.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_tim_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_uart.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_hal_uart_ex.o Drivers/STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver/Src/stm32l4xx_ll_usb.o Middlewares/ST/STM32_USB_Device_Library/Class/CDC/Src/usbd_cdc.o Middlewares/ST/STM32_USB_Device_Library/Core/Src/usbd_core.o Middlewares/ST/STM32_USB_Device_Library/Core/Src/usbd_ctlreq.o Middlewares/ST/STM32_USB_Device_Library/Core/Src/usbd_ioreq.o Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/CMSIS_RTOS/cmsis_os.o Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/croutine.o Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/event_groups.o Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/list.o Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/portable/GCC/ARM_CM4F/port.o Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/portable/MemMang/heap_3.o Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/queue.o Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/stream_buffer.o Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/tasks.o Middlewares/Third_Party/FreeRTOS/Source/timers.o Src/arm_fir_f32.o Src/arm_fir_fast_q15.o Src/arm_fir_init_f32.o Src/arm_fir_init_q15.o Src/arm_fir_interpolate_init_q15.o Src/arm_fir_interpolate_q15.o Src/arm_offset_q15.o Src/arm_q15_to_float.o Src/freertos.o Src/main.o Src/stm32l4xx_hal_msp.o Src/stm32l4xx_hal_timebase_TIM.o Src/stm32l4xx_it.o Src/system_stm32l4xx.o Src/usb_device.o Src/usbd_cdc_if.o Src/usbd_conf.o Src/usbd_desc.o TNC/AFSKModulator.o TNC/AFSKTestTone.o TNC/Afsk1200Demodulator.o TNC/AfskDemodulator.o TNC/AudioInput.o TNC/AudioLevel.o TNC/DCD.o TNC/Demodulator.o TNC/Digipeater.o TNC/FilterCoefficients.o TNC/Fsk9600Demodulator.o TNC/Fsk9600Modulator.o TNC/Goertzel.o TNC/Golay24.o TNC/HdlcDecoder.o TNC/HdlcFrame.o TNC/IOEventTask.o TNC/Kiss.o TNC/KissHardware.o TNC/KissTask.o TNC/LEDIndicator.o TNC/Log.o TNC/M17.o TNC/M17Demodulator.o TNC/M17Encoder.o TNC/M17Modulator.o TNC/ModulatorTask.o TNC/NullPort.o TNC/PortInterface.o TNC/PowerMode.o TNC/SerialPort.o TNC/UsbPort.o TNC/bm78.o TNC/bm78_eeprom.o newlib/_exit.o newlib/_sbrk.o newlib/_syscalls.o startup/startup_stm32l433xx.o 

# Debugging

Logging is enabled in debug builds and is output via ITM (SWO).  The
firmware is distributed with an openocd stlink config file that enables
ITM output to a named pipe -- `swv`.  You must create this pipe in the
top level directory.

To read from this pipe, open a terminal and run:

`while true; do tr -d '\01' < swv; done`

If you change the MCU's core clock, you need to adjust the timing in the
`stlink-tnc3.cfg` config file.

The TNC3 runs at 48MHz on startup.  It may switch to 80MHz for modulation types
such as 9600 or M17 which require more speed.  This makes using SWO challenging
as it cannot handle changes in core speeds.

# Installing firmware

Firmware can be installed via the on-board ST/LINK port or via USB DFU.

## USB DFU

 1. Download the STM32CubeProgrammer.
    https://s3.amazonaws.com/mobilinkd/en.stm32cubeprog-1.4.0.zip
    This programmer will work on Linux, OS X, and Windows.

 2. Download the ELF file from the release (or that you have built from source).

 3. Plug the TNC into a USB port and turn the TNC on.  You should see a USB
    serial port enumerated.

 4. Put the TNC into DFU mode by pressing the DFU/boot button on the side.  The
    TNC will only enter DFU mode when plugged into a USB port.

 ![TNC3 Diagram](https://s3.amazonaws.com/mobilinkd/TNC3/TNC3_Diagram.png)

***There is no visible indication on the TNC that it is in DFU mode***

 5. You should see the serial port device go away and a new DFU device appear.

 6. Run the STM32CubeProgrammer from the command-line. (Replace "firmware.elf"
    with the appropriate firmware filename. It must be in ELF format.)

    ./STM32_Programmer_CLI -c port=USB1 -d firmware.elf -v -g 0x8000000

 7. When that is complete, the DFU device will disappear and the serial port
    device will re-appear.
